Nobody want to do their dishes. Nobody
want to do their laundry. People will
love to spend more time with their
family, with their loved ones. So what
we believe in is that if the robot is
cheap, safe, and capable, everyone will
want our robot. And we see a future
where we have more than 1 billion of
these robots in people's homes within a
decade.
Thanks, Memo.
>> Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today we're here with Tony Zhao and
Changi, co-founders of Sunday and makers
of Memo, the first general home robot.
We'll talk about AI and robotics, data
collection, building a full stack
robotics company, and a world beyond
toil. Welcome, Chang. Tony, thanks for
being here.
>> Thanks for having us. Yeah.
>> Okay. First I want to ask like where are
we here? Because classical robotics has
not been an area of great optimism over
time or like massive velocity of work
and now people are talking about a
foundation model for robotics or a Chad
GPT moment. Um can you just
contextualize like the state of AI
robotics and why we should be excited? I
would say I think we're kind of in
between the GPT moment and the tragedy
moment like in the context of LMS what
it means is that it seems like we have a
recipe that can be scaled but we haven't
scaled up yet and we haven't scaled up
so much so that we can have a great
consumer product out of it. So this is
what I mean like GBT which is like a
technology and Chad GBT which is a
product. Yeah. And so we're seeing
across academia there's consensus around
what's the method uh for manipulation
but everybody's talking about scaling
up. It's like we know there's sign of
life for the algorithms people are
picking but people don't know if we have
more data like what happened to GBD2 GB3
what will happen and but we see a clear
trend that you know there's no reason to
believe that robotic doesn't follow the
trajectory of other AI fields that you
know scaling up is going to improve
fullness
>> maybe even if you took a step back like
what was the process for deploying a
robot into the world like 10 years ago
like
set of generalizable AI algorithms like
why why was it so slow as a field?
>> Yeah. So previously um you know
classical robotics have this sense plan
act modular approach where there's a
human designing interface between each
of the modules and those are need to be
designed for each specific task and each
specific environment. In academia that
means for every task that means a paper.
So a paper is you design a task, design
an environment and you design interfaces
and then you produce engineering work
for that specific task. But once you
move on to the next task, you throw away
all your code, all your work and you
start over again. And that's also kind
of what happened to industry. And so for
each application, people build a very
specific software and hardware system
around it. Uh but it's not really
generalizable. And therefore, it just
feel like we're just running in loops.
We build a one system and then we build
the next one, but there's like no
synergy between them. and as a result
the progress has been somewhat slow.
>> I feel like that's a good segue into
some of the amazing research work that
you guys have contributed over the last
five years to the field. Should we start
with diffusion policy? What was the
impact of that?
>> Yeah, so diffusion policy is like
specific algorithm for a paradigm called
imitation learning. That's really like
the most intuitive way of you know how
to use machine learning for robotics. So
you collect pair data action and
observation of what the robot should do.
you use that to train a model with
supervised learning and then the robot
do the same thing. The problem is that
uh in the field it's known to be very
finicky. Uh so when I talk to
researchers when I start into the field
uh people are like the researcher
themselves the specific researcher need
to collect the data so that there's
exactly one way to do everything. uh
otherwise the robot either like either
model training will diverge or the robot
will behave some weird way and diffusion
model really allows us to capture
multiple modes of behavior for the same
observation uh in a way that's still
preserved training stability and that
really kind of unlocked more scalable
training and more scalable data
collection.
>> So it doesn't have to be you personally
wearing you know a teop set in order to
make a robot learn.
>> Yep. Yep. So like we can have multiple
people sometimes even untrained people
collecting data and the result will
still be great.
>> Where do Aloha and ACT play into this?
>> Yeah. So these two papers are actually
like super close to each other. They're
like one month or two months away.
That's actually how me and Chun know
each other. It was like looking at each
other's paper like and we met on Twitter
I think when Chenn is back in Colombia
before Aloha. I think the typical way
people collect data is with a like
polyopagen setup with we are headset and
it turns out to be very unintuitive to
do and it's hard to collect data that is
actually dextrous what a lot of brains
is a very simple and reproducible setup
so it's very intuitive
>> sorry in terms of just for most people
who haven't worn a teleop setup is it
the lag is it like just you know how how
should I compare it to like playing a
video game or something
>> yeah I think Aloha make it feel more
like playing a video
uh normally feels kind of disconnected
that you're just like moving in the free
air and the robot is moving with some
delays. Um but Aloha reduces that delay
by a lot and that contribute to the kind
of smoothness and how fast human can
react like once we get those really
dextrous data. What allows us to do is
to investigate on algorithms that are
actually solving things that are
difficult. In this case is through the
introducing of trans using transformers
in the case of robotics. And there was a
long period of time that I think
robotics was stuck with uh three layer
MLPS and convenets and as you make it
deeper it works worse. But it turns out
that once you have very strong and
dextrous data sets like just throw a
transformer at it and it works quite
well
>> actually like just in terms of progress
of the industry over time transformers
didn't make sense without certain level
of data collection capability. Okay.
>> And also auto system around it for
example action chunking which is to
predict a trajectory as opposed to
predicting single samples of actions.
All these things kind of combined to
make Dexter's task by manual tasks more
scalable.
>> Why is uh chunking important here? If I
think about like just the analogy to LMS
and um like text sequence prediction,
>> I think it just kind of throws your
model off if you're trying to force it
to react every millisecond.
>> That's not not not how human acts. We
perceive and we can actually move quite
a bit without uh looking at things
again. And that turns out to make things
uh the motion a lot more consistent and
oral performance to be a lot better
>> and and you discovered that actually
transformers architecturally did apply
to robotics.
>> Chang you felt then that data collection
was still a problem. So enter um
>> yeah so after uh Aloha and diffusion
policy I was super excited about
imitation learning but at the time both
of us are still doing K operation and
that just feels super limiting. I think
the problem is that you know in your
setup at a time like a teley op set
setup uh you know it takes a PJ student
a couple of hours to set it up in a in a
lab. that pretty much restrict data
collection to a lab. But in order for
the robot to actually work as a as a
product, it need to be work in the wild
in in unseen environments that requires
data be also be collected in the wild.
And at the time I was thinking okay is
there a way we can collect robotic data
without actually using a robot that like
forced me to think okay what's the
actual most essential part of a robotics
data and after diffusion policy and act
actually the paradigm is kind of simple
uh you just need paired observation and
action data in our case observation is
the video clip the act uh the action is
the movement of your hand uh plus you
know how the finger moves I realized
that all this information you can get
from a GoPro uh you can track the
movement the GoPro in space and you can
you know track the motion motion of the
uh uh like you know of the gripper and
also finger uh through images as well
and that's why I built this uh umi uh
gripper that's 3D printed at a time like
the project has three features students
like we just took the grippers
everywhere uh like you know I think I
think it's two weeks before the paper
deadline like every time it goes to a
restaurant before the wearer come in we
just collect some data and very quickly
we got you know I think 1,500 uh video
clips of this like espresso cup serving
task and that turns out to be one of the
biggest data sets in robotics and just
simply by three people and that's like
how like that's where the power kind of
shines and then with that amount of data
allows to train the first end to end
model uh that can actually generalize to
unseen environments. So we can push the
robot around in Stanford actually Tony
was there as well you know push robot
arm around the Stanford campus and then
anywhere you know the robot can serve
you a drink. Yeah, I think that is the
moment I was like, "Hey, maybe we should
start a company. This is actually
working so well." I remember like just
following Chong and times it doesn't
work well.
>> Yes.
>> I think the only exception I saw was um
when it's under direct sunlight, right?
And I think the reasoning was like over
that whole like two three weeks of data
>> that two weeks is all raining so there's
no sunlight data. Um so like it fails.
That also demonstrates the importance of
distribution matching. So in order for a
robot to work in a sunny environment, it
must have seen sunny environments gen
training data.
>> Yeah. This it's really interesting
because I remember when I first met you
guys like you spent like I don't know
$200,000 across all of your academic
research and yet the scale of data
collection as translated to model
capability is leading. Right. So it's
it's very interesting that you know we
look at where we are maybe going back to
Tony's point of scaling and massive
capital deployment but that entire
paradigm actually wasn't relevant before
um people realize like you should train
on all of the internet data and we just
don't have that in robotics. So the
entire field is just blocked on having
any scale of data that's relevant.
>> Yeah.
>> I think these days there are so like so
many debates about like what is even the
right way to scale. there are like role
models there are simulations there is
teley operation there are like all these
new ideas and I think this is the the
sort of area that we really want to
innovate that we want to differentiate
that we want to find out something that
is both high quality and scalable
>> and then you guys you decide to start a
company pushing this cart around
Stanford tell me about that decision and
congratulations on the launch and and
sort of the the direction and team
you've built
>> yeah it's a it's a very interesting
journey uh I remember in the beginning
it's actually two of us uh in Chung's
apartment on his desk. We were like
clamped a robot there and tried to do
some tasks and it soon becomes like I
think an eight person team towards the
end of 2024
and now we're at around like 30 to 40
people. We're not the best at
everything, right? But starting a
company allows us to find people who we
really love working with and then bring
all the expertise together from
mechanical engineering, supply chain
like software engineering like controls
and to build a system together that is
not like a demo but a real product
>> you've built this amazing team. What are
people actually signing up for? What's
the mission of Sunday?
>> Yes, it is to put a home robot in
everyone's home. I think there are a lot
of AI trying to make you more efficient
during the work. But there is not enough
AI that actually helps you with all
these mundane things that are not
creative that really has nothing to do
with what's making us more intrinsically
human. What's ideal for people to spend
more time on is actually with their
hobbies, with their passions, as opposed
to spending more time doing chores. So
if you guys are going from, you know,
these amazing research breakthroughs to
we're actually going to ship a home
robot. You know, that's a product, you
have to talk about cost and capability
and robustness like what's the design
philosophy?
>> As these AI models becomes more capable
and as hardware cost continues to go
down, the home robots or all kinds of
robots will be everywhere. So if we
start from the most surface level which
is design of the robot. When we design
it, we think about what should a robot
look like if it is ubiquitous. You need
to see it every single day. What should
it look like? And what we end up with is
that we really think the robot should
have a face. It should have a cute face
and it should be very friendly. So
instead of like a Terminator doing your
dishes, we want the robot to feel like
it's out of a cartoon movie. And then a
huge decision is like how many arms
should the robot have? Should it have
like four arms? Should it have like one
arms? Should it have legs? Should it
have like five fingers, two fingers,
three fingers? Is a huge space.
>> Why isn't the obvious answer it should
just be like a full human?
>> I think the core motivation for us is
how can we build a useful robot as soon
as possible. So whenever we see
something that we can accelerate it with
simplification, we'll go simplify that.
So one example of that is uh the hand
that we designed which has three
fingers. We kind of combine the three of
the fingers that we have together. And
the reasoning there is just that most of
the time when we use those fingers we
use it together. Let it be like grasping
a handle. Let it be opening the
dishwasher.
>> So it really doesn't make sense to add
the cost like multiply by 3x to have
separate it into three when we can do
one with most of the benefits. So this
is how we think about the whole robot as
well. It's kind of with the constraint
that we are building a general purpose
robot that can eventually do all your
chores and we'll simplify everything we
possibly can so that the robot can be as
low cost and as easy to repair as
possible.
>> Yeah, I just want to add a little bit
more uh to the act and like mechanical
design. Traditionally most robots are
designed for industrial use cases
>> and the robot are very fast, they are
very stiff and they're very precise. Uh
the reason is because all the industrial
robots are blind. So they're blindly
following a trajectory that's programmed
by someone you know.
>> It's not reaction to perception.
>> Correct. Correct. But because of the
breakthrough we had in AI like now the
robot have eyes. So it can actually
correct its own uh mechanical and
hardware inaccuracies.
>> Uh so that kind of like opened up a new
different space of design
>> and intuitively it should be like I
can't tell you exactly what the distance
is here on a millimeter scale but I'm
going to get to the cup because I could
stop.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So that allows us to use
these lowcost actuators that's uh cheap,
that's compliant, but they're imprecise.
But uh because of the AI's algorithms
and systems we build, it allows to build
a robot that's mechanically inherently
safe and compliant while simultaneously
be able to achieve the sufficient
accuracy we need for the home tasks.
>> Where are we in that timeline? You said
we're between GPT and chat GBT. Um and
so like when do consumers get chat GPT
and when will you guys ship something?
>> Yeah. It's actually really exciting time
because like we have so many prototypes
internally. What we will do next year
2026 is actually start doing beta
programs. We'll have these robots all
kinds of different ones into people's
home and see how they react to it. That
will be when we learn the most about
like how people like people want to talk
to a robot. Do people want to have the
robot uh maybe teach their kids some uh
new knowledge about the world? And this
will inform us what the eventual product
should look like. Internally, we just
have a extremely high standard of what
is the minimal consumer product we want
to ship. It needs to be extremely safe.
It needs to be extremely capable and low
cost.
>> Do you feel like you know something now
that you didn't when you started the
company?
>> Absolutely. So I I think at the
beginning I'll describe it as like we
see light at the end of the tunnel of uh
there are two axes. There's dexterity,
there's realization. When we add more
data, things works better. And what is
this company about is the cross product
of these two. How can we scale and have
both dexterity and generalization? And
this is something we're able to show in
our generalization demo, which is like
we can pick up these like very precise
like forks like actual metallic forks on
a ceramic plates with very high success
rates. And honestly this is not
something that like we thought that
would work so easily just by having so
much more data.
>> Yeah. So actually just want to expand a
little bit uh you know it's actually the
process was long and painful.
So uh yeah there's so many issue like
just scaling up a system a robotic
system is very very hard. There are
mechanical issues uh like reliability
issues. Uh there's like data you know
quality issues that come out of it. In
the beginning, I actually thought it's
going to be much easier than this,
[laughter] but really just it takes time
and effort to grind out all the little
details for this to work. Um, I also
actually compared to Teddy up is much
harder to get this system scaled up, but
once it's scaled up, it's very powerful,
very repeatable.
>> So, it is both harder than you thought
it would be to get to here and you are
further than you thought you would be.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. And I remember in the beginning
we're having this like funny
conversation of we're like if we build
this someone can just like take our
glove and they will build the same thing
like what mode do we have? Are we
worried about that? And I think in the
beginning actually we were a little bit
worried because we thought like oh you
know they can probably just replicate it
but as we go along the path it turns out
things are so much harder than we
thought it was. There so so many the
small.
>> Yeah. Yes. Yes. And when you say scaling
up the robotic system, you mean the data
collection to training pipeline and the
hardware itself.
>> Yeah. So actually like for for yeah for
this to work at all, you need the data
collection system. Yeah. You need the
robotic and control system to be able to
deliver the hand to where we want to go
and you also need the data filtering
pipeline and data cleaning pipeline and
the training pipeline and all these
things need to be iterated together. So
actually gone through several loop of
these. It's kind of hard to imagine
without having a full stack team in
house how this can even be done.
>> Yeah. The glove we're using right now is
we call it like V5
>> and for Wii Zero to WI5 each version has
like around 20 iterations.
>> Okay. [clears throat]
>> And
>> so 100.
>> Yes.
>> Um and also like just when you make
these at scale right now we have more
than 500 people using these guffs in the
wild. Like all the things that could go
wrong will go wrong. For example, they
they did
>> they did. Yes. For example, like how
things are assembled. If you don't
specify exactly how it should be done,
people will assemble it in creative
ways. And the creativity doesn't help us
here because like we really want the
data collection device to be extremely
precise. So you guys can't obviously
know everything that's happening in
every company and in academia and
industry but from what you know how
would you compare the scale of um
training data that you have today
relative to the industry
>> at this point we are almost
10 million trajectories being collected
in the wild and those trajectories are
not just like oh pick up a cup is these
long trajectories with like walking with
navigation and then like doing these
long horizon tasks.
>> Tony, as you mentioned, like it's an
open question actually what the right
way to scale data up is. And so there
are strong theories around teaop around
like pure RL um around video and world
models like how did you think about all
of these?
>> Yeah. So from our perspective actually
it's kind of somewhat surprising. So in
the beginning we worried that you know
the data from glove or um like data it
has higher quantity but lower quality
compared to teleyop because for teleyop
you're using exactly the same hardware
and software stack between training and
testing is perfectly distribution match
>> but what we realized is actually you
know this glow up form factor encourage
people to do more dextrous and more
natural movement and those actually
result in a like a more intelligent
behavior on the on the on the modeling
side and in terms of you know data
quality we don't really see a in terms
of know how much like like there's a gap
between tidy op and glove data
>> after we did the 20 engineering like
360.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Like because like apparently there
is a mismatch, right? That um in the
camera frame there's a human instead of
the robot and there are just a lot of
things that we need to do to kind of
convert a human data one to one to like
as if it is robot data and have the
model not being able to tell the
difference. Yeah. And that kind of
relies on again the whole the full cycle
iteration between hardware and software.
>> What about RL? We see a lot of great
promise for RL in local motion and uh
you know we think that will continue to
be true for local motion. Uh so what we
see really like RL as a method uh is
very powerful uh but it is much less
sample efficient compared to imitation
learning and we see that to work great
in environments where it's easy to
simulate. Uh for the case of local
motion only you only need to worry about
uh rigid body dynamics and rigid body
contact between the robot and and the
ground. Um and you know because you
engineer a robot you know everything. Uh
but for manipulation it's hard kind of
hard for us to imagine like have there
actually the same amount of diversity
and the distribution of real object in
terms of matching both appearance uh
appearance and physical properties and
we think that uh it's going to be
challenging compared to uh glo data
collection and tyup.
>> Yeah I think it's really about which
method can get us there faster. there
might be different methods that will
eventually get there. For example, like
you know simulation world model, right?
And like it's almost a tutology to say
that if I have a perfect world
simulator,
anything can be done there. Like as long
as you can do it in the real world, you
can do it in a simulation and you can
like you know cure cancer in a
simulator, right? But what it turns out
for robotics is that just some some
things are harder than others and it
really depends on the problem itself. So
in the case of local motion as I
mentioned all we need to model in a
simulator are point contacts with a
somewhat uh flat ground
>> like feet.
>> Yes.
>> But sort of the behavior we want out of
it is actually very difficult to model
>> like it's all these like reactive
behaviors that when you feel like your
um your leg is hitting something you
should like retract and you know step
again. uh these are very very hard to
describe or try to learn from
demonstrations directly. But in the case
of manipulation, I think the difficulty
is flipped that it's a lot easier to
capture the behavior itself and it's a
lot harder to simulate the world. Mhm.
>> For example, if you were to grasp a
transparent cup with some orange juice
in it, it's ridiculously hard to
simulate how like your hand deforms
around the cup and how all those
ripplings how those like the color of
the juice results in like the rendering
and what the policy end up seeing.
Simulating that is very expensive and
difficult. But all we need to learn is
just to like get your hand to be in
front of the cup and then close with the
appropriate amount of force. And that's
actually very easy to learn. That's why
like we see so many success of imitation
learning in the case of robotics
manipulation is because the behavior
itself is actually not as hard as
simulating the world and that's why we
see faster progress there. Is there
anything that you have changed your
point of view on um in data over the
last year?
>> Like one thing I wouldn't say changed
but just uh data quality really matters.
Uh I think we know I always knew data
quality matters but once you scale it up
like it it really matters uh and and
then because you know just like the
diversity of behavior that like you
experience in the wild is very hard to
control and the hardware failures are
hard to control. You need to constantly
monitor them. uh just need to spend a
lot of huge amount of engineering effort
just to make sure that you know the data
is clean.
>> Yeah. And also building all those
automatic processes, right? We have our
own way of calibrating the glove before
we ship it out and we have this whole
like software system to catch if a
something is broken on the glove and we
can detect it automatically is like the
importance of uh data quality kind of
translates to all these repeatable
processes and we don't need a human to
be staring at the data to know that
something is wrong. When you described
the beta for next year, um, a lot of it
sounded like, you know, we just want to
understand behavior like how people
actually want to use it. We can make
some design decisions for the actual
product. What technical challenges do
you still see?
>> Uh, so to me, I think there's like two
kind. The number one is really figuring
out the training recipe at scale. We as
a field just entered the the realm of
scaling and we just got amount of data
that we need. I think now is a perfect
time to start do research and actually
figure out what exact training recipe we
need to actually you know get robust
behaviors. Uh and I think you know we're
in a unique position because like the
amount of data and the entire pipeline
we built around data. The second point I
think just really hardware is hard.
We're still pushing the bound the
envelope performance envelope of
hardware. It's not really clear actually
what is needed, what is needed, what is
necessary for the hardware to be
reliable because like when whenever the
mechanical team build a hardware, the
learning team will try to try harder to
push it against the boundary and then
it'll break at some point and but I
think what's interesting in this company
is that everybody's under the same roof.
So immediately after something breaks,
it goes straight back into mechanical
design and then we have a another
iteration like say for the hand parts
very quickly. Hard work is hard, but it
is important and I think, you know, it's
the a hard but right thing to do and I
think we as a field shouldn't avoid
doing the hard things just because
they're hard.
>> Yeah, I want to echo Chan's point about
like first the research. I think when
there is data scarcity, it is really
easy to come up with like cute fancy
research ideas that doesn't end up
scaling very well. And this is why like
when we build a company, we actually
focus on the infrastructure and a
scalable data pipeline and operations
before we start to like really dive into
research which we only started to do
like three months ago. I think we really
want to avoid doing research that
doesn't scale and want to focus on
things that contribute to the final
product. The second point is like I
think robotics is so intrinsically a
like a system that right now we don't
like there's not a existing general
purpose home robot out there and we
don't really know what the interface of
different system is like what is even
good and in that case if you're working
with a partner it's actually really hard
for them to understand your standard of
good because your standard of good is
changing all the Mhm.
>> This is why we are like building
everything in house in a more full stack
approach that we build our own data
collection device that is co-designed
with the robot. We build our own like
operation team to be like how can we
most efficiently get the most high
quality data out and of course our own
AI training team um that's make the best
use of these data. I think these are the
things that are really not easy. It
makes a company a lot harder like to
build that right now. You suddenly need
like so many teams and they need to
orchestrate uh together but we believe
it is the right thing to do.
>> Okay. I'm going to ask you a few
questions that are uncomfortable guesses
now but when will people be able to buy
robots commercially for the home?
>> Like this is something we're really
excited about because we have so many of
prototype robots in our office and we
really want to get it out there. So the
next step of our plan is to have a beta
growth program 2026. And what it means
is that uh for people who sign up that
we selected, they will have a real robot
in their home and it will start doing
chores for you. And uh it's a it's going
to be a really interesting learning
lesson for us because we will see like
how human interact with the robots.
We'll see like what kind of things
people just really want the robot to do.
I think this will be before we actually
ship it to the masses because we just
have an incredibly high standard of what
we are willing to ship as a for a
consumer experience standpoint. We want
the robot to be highly reliable. We want
it to be capable. We want it to be
cheap. I think it really depends on the
results of the beta program that will
decide when is a good time to ship it.
Is it 2027? Is it 28? And but all of
those are possible.
>> But it's not a decade away. No, it's
definitely not that good way.
>> How much do you think it could cost?
>> Right now, the prototype robots we have
in in house, I think the cost ranges
from like $6,000 to something like
$20,000. And this is actually pretty
interesting that uh the big difference
here is not like, oh, we find a better
actuator. They're using the same
actuators that are like very low cost,
but actually it's the cladding of the
robot. When you're trying to make them
at low scale, it's just really
expensive. like the claddings are like a
few thousand dollars to make. Uh but
this is the type of things that as we
scale up it becomes like dirt cheap. Uh
because instead of like doing CNC,
instead of hand painting them, it'll
become injection molding. What we see is
that as we get the scale to a few
thousand units, we can drastically
reduce the material cost likely under
10K. And what it implies is that
when we sell the robots, the price will
be somewhere around it.
>> Okay. So, uh you fast forward 2 3 years
out. If you look like 5 years and
beyond, the home robots are ubiquitous.
Like what does life look like? How does
it change for your average person?
>> This is a different answer for everyone.
For me, like I just really hate dishes.
uh like in my sink there's always like
four or five dishes that are like
somewhat dirty out there that kind of
stinks a little bit and after a long day
of work it really doesn't feel good to
come out like see a home like that. Um
so I think the world we'll live in is
>> it's going to be cleaner.
>> It seems to be cleaner and I was just
think about it as like the marginal cost
of labor in homes goes to zero.
>> The last thing I want to make sure we do
is like talk about demos, right? Um
there's a lot of robotics launch videos
today. It's been years since you saw an
optimist serving drinks at a bar. Why
are those not available? And what is
actually hard?
>> Yeah. I
>> I think the way I will put it is make
zero assumptions. No prior.
>> Okay.
>> As in if you see a robot handing one
drink to one person, first ask the
question of is that autonomous or is
that tally operated? So this is the
first thing. So we should look at the
tweet and see what they say about it.
And and then is that does it show giving
another slightly different color cup to
the same person or not? If they didn't
show it, it means that a robot can
literally only pick up that single cup
and give it to that same person. When we
look at demos, we tend to put our human
instinct into it that like, oh, if you
can hand a cup to that person, it must
be able to hand a different cup to
another person. Maybe you can also do my
dishes. Maybe you can do your laundry.
There are a lot of like visual thinking
that we can have about it which is
what's great about robotics that there
are a lot of imaginations but I think
when we look at demos only index on
things that is strong and that's likely
the full scope of that task. I think
another aspect is at least me as a
researcher I uh I appreciate the number
of interactions that happens uh in in in
a demos. Usually the more interactions
you have like every interaction there's
a chance of failure. So the the longer
the sequence is, the harder it actually
is. So that's something we really
emphasize here. Uh and and that's
actually somewhat uniquely easy for us
because the glove uh way of data
collection is so intuitive to people.
Yeah, it's really about like
generalization and reliability.
>> So can you explain the demos that you
guys are showing?
>> Yeah, of course. So we are showing like
basically three categories of demos. The
first one as you saw is we have this
whole like messy table and what the
robot does is to clean up the whole
table and you know dump the food into
the food waste bin and load the dishes
into the dishwasher and then operate the
dishwasher. What makes this demo really
hard is that it is a mix of really fine
grain manipulation with these super long
horizon full range task as in like to go
up and you also need to go down very
much.
>> It's a mobile manipulation.
Exactly. The reason that we can show
this is just how nimble and easy for us
to collect these data sets to make
Horizon Dexter demo possible. And it's
also about the forces as well. So you
might have seen like we're trying to
pick up two wine glasses with one hand.
>> And I struggle with this, but yeah,
>> it's actually really hard. And because
it's like transparent objects, we need
to also load it very precisely into the
into the dishwasher. A lot of it is
about how much force you apply.
>> Uh because if you're trying to grasp two
in one hand, if you squeeze a little bit
harder, you're going to break one of the
glass. And when you load it into a
dishwasher, if you're pushing in the
wrong direction and it hits something,
it's going to shatter. We we did shatter
a ton of glasses when we're like
experimenting with it. So these are ts
are like really high stake that it's not
just about recovering from mistakes, but
about not making those mistakes in the
first place. And this is what's
generally the case in a lot of the home
tasks that you're just not allowed to
make any mistakes. And then we get into
the gization demos which we basically
show our robot. We book like six ambns
and we get it there zero shots
>> and see if it can do like part of the
task. So two sides we use one is I go
around table and collect all the
utensils into the caddy. The other is to
grab a plate and then load it into the
dishwasher. What makes these these demos
very interesting is that we don't need
any data when we enter that home. It's
pure generalization. And this is as
close to getting like a real product as
you can get because when someone buy our
home robot, we really don't want them to
like collect a huge set of themselves
just to like unbox it. Also, in addition
toization, those two tasks are also
really precise. We're using the exact
silver rares uh in the home and you need
like basically like a few millimeter of
precision where to grasp it properly.
Those force are also hard to perceive
because they're reflective like the
lights looks weird on it. We have have a
transparent table home. I think that the
table looks like nothing and the robot
still like reacts very well to it. And
again, the reason that we can do it is
because we have all these like more than
500 people and we've seen so many glass
tables in that data set. So the robot is
able to do it. I think the last bit of
the task that we did is kind of pushing
what's possible in terms of dexterity.
The two tasks we chose, one is a
espresso operating espresso machine. The
other is like folding socks.
>> Mhm. What make these hard is that they
require very fine grain force that is
hard to get if you're doing with teley
operation because these days there's not
a good teley operation system that can
let you feel how much force the robot is
feeling. So basically when you're
Italian operating your hand is numb
>> and sometimes you are applying like a
huge amount of force on the robot but
you don't know it and that can result in
like very low data quality that the
robot is also doing in that aggressive
way that we really want to avoid for our
system. Um the sock is a very good
example that when you're trying to fold
it your two fingers can touch
>> and that forms a what we call like a
force closure. you have a closed loop uh
for the force and if your row is stiff
you can apply infinite amount of force
at it and it doesn't look like anything
uh but for us because we're using the
glove to collect the data uh the human
who is collecting it can just naturally
feel it is very intuitive I think we're
the first to do the sock folding and
using end to end to do like espresso
machine uh out of the whole industry
>> one of the things that you will also
need to scale as you guys um you know
scale up the company is the team um uh
what are you hiring for what are you
what are you looking for
>> one thing uh I'm really looking forward
is
>> thanks
>> yeah yeah so is uh full stack roboticist
and people who aspire to become full
roboticist yeah really what you learn in
this company it just robotics is such a
multi-disiplinary field uh you need to
know uh you know mechan a little
mechanical a little electrical a little
code a little bit of data uh to actually
fully optimize the system and we have a
couple examples um of training you know
just full size software engineers to
become roboticist training M engineers
to become roboticist and so if you want
to learn about robotics you move on you
want to learn the whole thing not just
to be boxing into your small you know
little cubicle uh let us know
>> yeah and you told me that you uh didn't
write code until you got to college or
something yeah
>> I was super enthusiastic about robotics
uh but I was mostly doing like a
mechanical and electrical design uh
before that uh and then I realized okay
the bottleneck is actually how the robot
will move and there's like there there's
there's something called like
programming and then the more I get into
it like the deeper it gets uh and then
you know toward the end of college I
realized okay there's a thing called
machine learning and you figure out how
to train models I think the thing just
go on and on and I think it's very
natural for me to gradually expand my
skill set because I'm always looking
forward to build a robot
>> well I hope you discover the next field
because you're no longer doing dishes to
>> it's It's a very fun place to work.
Whatever you can imagine about robotics
and consumer products and machine
learning, you can find it here because
we're just fundamentally such a full
stack company. We're not just about the
software. We're not just about the
hardware, but we're about the whole
experience, the whole product and making
sure that product is general and like
scalable in the future.
>> Awesome. Congratulations.
>> It's really exciting.
Find us on [music] Twitter at no prior
pod. Subscribe to our YouTube channel if
you want to see our faces. Follow the
show on [music] Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or wherever you listen. That way you get
a new episode every week. And sign up
for emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-flyers.com.